Transcriber: TED Translators admin
Reviewer: Ivana Korom
We can all have a bad night of sleep
and that's perfectly normal,
but how could we try to improve
both the quantity
and the quality of our sleep?
[Sleeping with Science]
(Music)
Here are six scientifically grounded tips
for better sleep.
The first tip is regularity.
Go to bed at the same time
and wake up at the same time.
Regularity is king,
and it will actually anchor your sleep
and improve both
the quantity and the quality,
no matter whether
it's the weekday or the weekend
or even if you've had
a bad night of sleep.
And the reason is
because deep within your brain,
you actually have a master 24-hour clock.
It expects regularity
and works best under
conditions of regularity,
including the control
of your sleep-wake schedule.
Many of us use an alarm to wake up
but very few of us use a to-bed alarm,
and that's something that can be helpful.
The next tip is temperature.
Keep it cool.
It turns out that your brain and your body
need to drop their core temperature
by about one degree Celsius
or around two to three degrees Fahrenheit
in order to initiate sleep
and then to stay asleep.
And this is the reason
that you will always find it easier
to fall asleep in a room
that's too cold than too hot.
So, the current recommendation
is to aim for a bedroom temperature
of around about 65 degrees Fahrenheit,
or a little over 18 degrees Celsius.
It sounds cold but cold it must be.
The next tip is darkness.
We are a dark-deprived society
and, in fact, we need darkness
specifically in the evening
to trigger the release
of a hormone called melatonin.
And melatonin helps regulate
the healthy timing of our sleep.
In the last hour before bed,
try to stay away from all
of those computer screens
and tablets and phones.
Dim down half the lights in your house.
You'd actually be quite surprised
at how sleepy that can make you feel.
If you'd like, you can wear an eye mask
or you can have blackout shades
and that will help best regulate
that critical sleep hormone of melatonin.
The next tip is walk it out.
Don't stay in bed awake
for long periods of time.
And the general rule of thumb
is if you've been trying to fall asleep
and it's been 25 minutes or so,
or you've woken up
and you can't get back to sleep
after 25 minutes,
the recommendation is to get out of bed
and go and do something different.
And the reason is because your brain
is an incredibly associative device.
The brain has learned the association
that the bed is this trigger
of wakefulness,
and we need to break that association.
And by getting out of bed,
you can go and do something else.
Only return to bed when you're sleepy.
And in that way, gradually,
your brain will relearn the association
that your bed is this place
of sound and consistent sleep.
The fifth tip is something
that we've actually
already spoken about
in detail in this series,
which is the impact
of alcohol and caffeine.
So, a good rule of thumb here
is to try to stay away
from caffeine in the afternoon
and in the evening
and certainly try
not to go to bed too tipsy.
The final tip: have a wind-down routine.
I think many of us in the modern world,
we expect to be able
to dive into bed at night,
switch off the light,
and we think that sleep
is also just like a light switch,
that we should immediately
be able to fall asleep.
Well, unfortunately,
sleep isn't quite like that
for most of us.
Sleep, as a physiological process,
is much more similar to landing a plane.
It takes time for your brain
to gradually descend down
onto the firm bedrock of good sleep.
In the last 20 minutes before bed
or the last half an hour,
even the last hour,
disengage from your computer
and your phone
and try to do something relaxing.
Find out whatever works for you
and when you have found it,
stick to that routine.
The last thing I should note
is that if you are suffering
from a sleep disorder,
for example, from insomnia or sleep apnea,
then these tips aren't necessarily
going to help you.
If I was your sports coach,
I could give you all of these tips
to improve your performance,
but if you have a broken ankle,
it's not going to make a difference.
We have to treat the broken ankle first
before we can get back to improving
the quality of your performance.
And it's the same way with sleep.
So, if you think
you have a sleep disorder,
just go and speak with your doctor.
That's the best piece of advice.
Where do we stand, then,
in all of this conversation about sleep?
Well, I think the evidence is clear.
We can think of sleep
almost like a life-support system.
In fact, some may even
call sleep a super power.